<!-- image -->

PURPOSE

DEFINITIONS

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

Scction:

Medical, Hcalth and Wellness

## EXPOSURE OF MEMBERS OF THE SERVICE TO INFECTIOUS DISEASES OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS

DATE EFFECTIVE:

11/18/21

LAST REVISION:

I.0. 99

PAGE:

I of4

To provide instructions and minimize risk to members of the service
(uniformed and civilian) who have contact with, or handle, an animal or
person who may have an infectious disease, or who have contact with or
handle hazardous materials.

INEECTIOUS DISEASE - as used in this procedure, includes diseases
capable of being transmitted by contact with an infected animal's saliva
or central nervous system tissue, or with an infected individual's blood
or body fluids.

HAZARDOUS MATERIAL - as used in this procedure, includes any chemical,
biological, or radiological substance which is a health hazard. Chemical
health hazards include carcinogens, toxic agents, irritants, corrosives,
or agents which damage the lungs, skin, eyes, or mucous membranes, etc.
Chemical physical hazards include flammable or combustible liquids,
compressed gas, or explosive or reactive substances, etc.

EXPOSURE TO AN NFECTIOUS DISEASE as used in this procedure, includes
those situations where a member of the service is exposed by airborne
transmission or direct contact to an individual suspected of having a
disease, or where a member comes in contact with the blood or body
fluids of an individual suspected of having an infectious disease, or,
where a member of the service is injured as the result of a human or
animal bite, or hypodermic needle puncture, or other contaminated sharp
instrument, or where a member of the service is exposed to an animal
suspected of having an infectious disease, or where a member comes in
contact with the saliva or central nervous system tissue of an animal
suspected of having an infectious disease.

EXPOSURE TO A HAZARDOUS MATERIAL - as used in this procedure, includes
those situations where a member of the service is exposed to a hazardous
material whether through inhalation, ingestion, skin contact, or
parenteral contact.

INIVERSAL PREC Ą UTIONS - as used in this procedure, is an approach to
infection control. According to this approach, all human blood and
certain body fluids are to be treated as if they are known to be
infectious for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus
(HBV), or other bloodborne pathogens; and in addition, all animal saliva
and central nervous system tissue are to be treated as if they are known
to be infectious for rabies. All efforts to avoid contact with these
potentially infectious materials should be taken as well as utilizing
whatever protective equipment is available.

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| PROCEDURE NUMBER:   | DATE EFFECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|---------------------|-------------------|------------------|---------|
| 330-09              | 11/18/21          | L.0. 99          | 2 of4   |

## DEFINITION (continued)

NOTE

PROCEDURE

## MEMBER OF THE SERVICE

NOTE

DESIGNATED OFFICER - an individual designated under 42 U.S.C. 300f-86 by
the Public Health Officer of the State involved (42 U.S.C. 300ff-76) to
execute provisions of Section 41l of the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS
Resources Emergency Act regarding emergency response employees who
request a determination whether they were exposed to an infectious
disease.

To avoidunnecessary exposure, control of the aidedlcollision victim, or
prisoner will be assigned to an officer at thescene who has already had
contact with a person suspected of having an infectiousdisease.
Theassigned officer will be responsible for completing the processing of
the individual. If there are numerous individuals involved. the patrol
supervisor at the scene will be responsible for the coordination of
information and documentingthename,etc., of the membersof the service
involved.

Upon being exposed to an infectious disease, hazardous material, or
suffering a human or animal bite, or hypodermic needle puncture wound:

1. Comply with guidelines listed in "ADDITIONAL DATA" statement of this procedure, when possible.
2. Notify desk officer, precinct ofoccurrence.

When exposure involves an actual injury, the member of the service
concerned will be transported to the hospital for treatment and A.G.
330-03, "Line Of Duy Injury Or Death" will be complied with, as
appropriate. When exposure does not involve an actual injury and the
exposure is related to tuberculosis, the member of the service concerned
should consider this Department's ofer of Mantoux (PPD) skin testing
which is free of charge. Whentestedand the results are positive, notif
Unit Safety Officer to initiate entry onState ofNew York - Department of
Labor Log andSummary of Occupational Injuries and Ilnesses (DOSH 900).
recordable on DOSH 900 logs. A code (e.g., maiden name pseudonym) may be
used to substitute for thedescriptionof injury or illness(column[FJ).
Tuberculosis infection and tuberculosis disease are both

- DESK OFFICER 3. Obtain exposure report number via Line of Duty Injury Reporting System.
4. MakeCommand Log entry of information
- a. Include Exposure Report number in Log entry.
5. Notify designated Department surgeon of the facts involved.
6. Contact member of the service involved and advise of necessary treatment. DEPARTMENT SURGEON

## 7. MEMBER OF THE SERVICE

NOTE

- Comply with directions of Departmentsurgeon.

By telephoning this Department 's designated oficer at the Medical
Division, Hazmat Unit, emergency response employees, such as a law
enforcement officer or auxiliary police officer, may submit a request
for a determination whether they were exposed to a specific infectious
disease when a victim of an emergency wh was aided by the
emergencyresponse enmployeewas transported to amedical facility. fit is
deternmined

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| &#124;PROCEDURE NUMBER:   | DATE EFFECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   |        |
|---------------------------|-------------------|------------------|--------|
| 330-09                    | 11/18/21          | I.0. 99          | 3 of 4 |

## NOTE (continued)

## ADDITIONAL DATA

that the emergency response employee may have been exposed to an
infectious disease, a signed written request, along with the facts
collected, must be sent by the designated officer to themedical facility
to which the victim (or patient), i.e., aided or prisoner, was
transported. practicable, the designated officer must immediately notify
the member or members concerned. Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) to an
emergency response employee, redisclosure by the
emergencyresponseemployee is prohibited when not in conformance with
state law. Afier receiving a notification from the medical facility, to
the extent Whenever the designated officer discloses information related
to Human

- Make digital Activity Log entry of facts involved. 8.
- a. Include Exposure Report number.

## EXPOSURE TOINEECTIOUSDISEASESGUIDELINES

- a Confer with Emergency Medical Service personnel, the individual 's family, friends, neighbors, doctor, or appropriate agency as to the source individual 's medical conditions, when circumstances permit.
- Weardisposablegloves if contact with individual's blood or body fluids is a possibility; and if a member who is routinely engaged in the capture or seizure ofsuspectedrabidanimals, wearheavydutydisposablerubbergloves if contact with animal's saliva or central nervous system tissue is a possibility. b.
- Washhandswith soap and water (disinfectantsoap, if possible), after removing disposablegloves. Glove kits containing antiseptic wipes, gloves, and disposable bag should be used when hand-washing facilities are not available. C
- Immediately and thoroughly wash hands or other unprotected body parts if they come in contact with individual 's blood or body fuids, or if bitten, scratched, abraded, by an animal, or if there is contact between the member and the animal's saliva or nervous system tissue. Use disinfectant soap, ifpossible. d.
- Remove and machine wash (hot cycle), or have dry cleaned, as soon as possible, any part of uniform/civilian clothes that come in contact with an individual 's blood orbodyfluids and promptly clean any equipment other than that made offabric. e
- Use extraordinary care to avoid accidental puncture wounds from needles which may be contaminated with potentially infectious material. f.
- Affix Biohazard Label to any property, evidence, or waste which may be contaminated. 8

## ACCIDENTALSPILLS OF BLOODORBODY FLUIDS

A supply of household bleach will be maintained at all
precinct/PSA/transit district commands, emergency service units, borough
court section facilities, and other appropriate sites. Accidental spills
of blood or body fluids on floors, cells, RMP's or on othersurfaces,
other than clothing, or fabric may be cleaned by applying a FRESHLY
MIXED solution of one part householdbleach with ten parts water. It is
imperative that the preceding mixture be carefully followed. Household
bleach is not to be mixed with any solution other than water and it must
be freshly mixed for eachuse.

Members of the service (uniformed and civilian) are reminded that this
mixture of bleach and water will cause damage if used to clean uniforms.
Uniform items soiled with blood or body fluids can be effectively
cleaned by routine lundering or dry cleaning procedures. Bleach should
not be used to cleanse hands. In addition, bleach

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| PROCEDURE NUMBER:   | DATE EFFECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|---------------------|-------------------|------------------|---------|
| 330-09              | 11/18/21          | I.0. 99          | 4 of 4  |

## ADDITIONAL DATA (continued)

mixed with any substance other than water may cause a toxic gas.
Therefore, disposal of bleach or bleach dilutions should beperformed onk
in a sink (nota urinal or toilet since they sometimes contain chemical
deodorizers). When preparing a bleach dilution, the container used for
the diluted solution must be cleaned with water and free of any other
solution.

To prevent injury/infection when handling or forwarding hypodermic
needles/syringes to the Property Clerk, members of the service will
place such items in a hypodermic needle/syringe container by utilizing a
one-handed "scoop" technigue which uses the needle itself to pick up the
hypodermic needlesyringe container. By using one hand to hold the
hypodermic syringe while moving the hypodermic needle toward the
lhypodermic needle/syringe container, the member of the service is
moving the needle away from themselves. Members should not hold the
container and move their hand toward the needle. The container will
becapped, ifpossible. However, if the syringe extendsbeyond the
container. it will be secred with tape. Under no circumstances shoulda
member of the service attempt to remove, dislodge, or benda needlefrom a
hypodermicsyringe.