<!-- image -->

## FITNESS FOR DUTY

## ADDITIONAL DATA

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

Scction:

Gencral Regulations

DATE EFFECTIVE:

04/21/22

Procedure No:

## FITNESS FOR DUTY

LAST REVISION:

L.0. 45

304-04

PAGE:

of 2

- 1 Be fit for duty at all times, except when on sick report.
2. Do not consume intoxicants to the extent that member becomes unfit for duty.

All members oftheservice are required to remain fit for duty as
specifiedabove, and are reminded of theirabsoluteresponsibility to
remain ft for duty while inpossessionof theirfi ř earms.

Any nisconduct involving a member's misuse ofa firearm while unfit for
duty due to excessive consumption of, and intoxication from, alcohol
will result in that member's termination from the Department.
Exceptional cases will be determined by the Police Commissioner, on a
case by case basis,

Furthermore, any nisconduct involving members who are found to be unfit
for duty due to excessive consumption and intoxication from alcohol,
while armed with a firearm, will result in the inclusion of the charge
of "Unfit For Duty While Armed," in Departmental disciplinary
proceedings. In addition to those penalties imposed as a result of all
other chargesstemming from themisconduct, strict punitive sanctions will
beimposed for any member upon whom the charge has been substantiated.

Additionally, a uniformed member of the service who refuses to submt to
chemical testing in connection with an alleged violation of section l192
of the New York State Vehicleand Traffic Law (Driving While Intoxicated)
will be charged with violating Administrative Guide procedure 304-06,
"Prohibited Conduct," Engaging in conduct prejudicial to the good order,
efficiency, or discipline oftheDepartment.

Members of the service are also remindedof the Department's commitment
to the many counseling andassistanceprograms available for a wide
variety of problems. Members who are experiencing problems related to
alcohol, or know of any other member who may be experiencing problems
related to alcohol, are strongly encouraged to call HELPLINE, in order
to achieve confidentialassistance.

## DEPARTMENT POLICYSTATEMENTCONCERNING THE OPERATION OF A MOTORVEHICLEUNDERTHEINELUENCEOFALCOHOL

- Any uniformed member of the service who causes serious physical injury to another person while operating a motor vehicle and is determined to be unfit for duty due to the consumption of aleohol will beterminated from the New York City i. Police Department, absent exigent circumstances.
- ii Any negotiated penalty in a Department disciplinary proceeding, involving a uniformed member of the service who is determined to have been operating a motor vehicle while unfit for duty due to the consumption of and/or intoxrication from alcohol shall include a period of Dismissal Probation. Additionally, uniformedmembers of the service invohved in incidents either on or off duty where alcohol is deemed a contributing factor, and where pursuant to a negotiated penalty in a Department disciplinary proceeding are required to submit to ordered breath testing, the negotiated

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| PROCEDURENUMBER:   | DATE EFPECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|--------------------|-------------------|------------------|---------|
| 304-04             | 04/21/22          | 1,0, 45          | 2 of 2  |

## ADDITIONAL (continued) DATA

penalty may also include a period of Dismissal Probation. Further, any
such negotiation shall include the subject officer's agreement to submit
to ordered breath testing for the presence of alcohol while on duty or
off duty, during the period of probation, or other agreed upon time
period. Should the member be found unfit for duty or refiuse tosubmnit
to breath testing, this will result in additional disciplinary action
against the subject officer which may include termination.

- iü. Members of the service whose alcohol consumption has caused problems for them or others are urged to self-report before they are responsible for a serious incident and the above disciplinary action becomes necessary. They can do so in complete confidence by calling the Counseling Services Unit. who are experiencing problems related to alcohol, are strongly encouraged to call HELPLINE or the Police Organization Providing PeerAssistance, (POPPA). POPPA is a joint labor-management cooperative effort involving the inplementation of a unionoperated, alternative employeeassistance program. Both HELPLINE and POPPA offer confidential services. Additionally, members
- iv. Members of the service with alcohol-related problems may also be referred to the Counseling Services Unit by supervisors, other Department units, or as the result of an alcohol related incident. However, the Department's objective, at al! levels, is early detection and referral of personnel for evaluation andtreatment before drinking causesproblems in work performance or worse.
- The Counseling Services Unit maintains strict standards of confidentiality as set forth in Title 42 of Federal guidelines governing alcoholism programs, and it does not act as part of the Department's disciplinary system. The Counseling Services Unit's mission is to assist in recovery and return to full and productive service those members of the Department who are experiencing problems with alcohol. The unit operates 24 hoursa day, seven days a week, and will help assess the extent of the problem, and make the appropriate referrals for treatment. Treatment can range from detoxification and inpatient rehabilitation to outpatient rehabilitation and the participation in selfsupport groups. Counseling is available to members of the service,their families andretirees.
- vi. The Police Department 's policy is to encourage members of the service to seek help in a supportive, confidential environment before the consequences of alcohol abuse require the Department to take disciplinary action. In addition, to assist thosemembers of the service experiencing alcohol related problems, all New York City Police Department personnel are encouraged to refer those with problems to any of the counseling/assistance providers indicated in number "iii" ofthis procedure.
- vii. Members participating in these programs will not jeopardize their promotional opportunities. In addition, their current assignments will not ordinarily be changedbecause of their participation in these programs unless, due to the nature of the assignment, a change is deemed to be in the best interests of all parties concerned. However, participation in these prograns will not exempt a member of the service from disciplinary action for specific acts of misconduct and the consequences of such disciplinary action.