<!-- image -->

## PURPOSE

SCOPE

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

Section:

Medical, Health and Wellness

Procedure No:

## TRAUMA COUNSELING PROGRAM

LAST REVISION:

RO. 14

PAGE:

330-07

DATE EFFECTIVE:

03/24/25

1

of 3

To provide Trauma Counseling Services for members of the service
(uniformed and civilian) involved in shooting incidents, disasters, or
other violent occurrences resulting in death or injury.

A member of the service (uniformed or civilian) will be referred to the
Trauma Counseling Program when involved in a shooting incident,
disaster, or other violent occurrences resulting in death or injury.
Theseinclude, but are not limited to, thefollowing:

- a. Member is shot or otherwise seriously injured.
2. b Member discharges a weapon causing injury or death to another.
3. C Member causes, accidentally or otherwise, serious physical injury or death to another.
4. Member is directly involved in an incident where their partner was killed or seriously injured, etc. d.
5. Member is directly involved in incidents or serious disasters where multiple serious injuries and deaths have occurred. e

The Trauma Counseling Team will respond to all incidents involving:

- Member of the service is shot, killed, or seriously injured in the performance of duty. a.
- b Any incident pursuant to a request from a captain or above.

PROCEDURE

When a member of the service (uniformed or civilian) is involved in a
shooting incident, disaster or other violent occurrence resulting in
death or injury:

1 DESK OFFICER

OPERATIONS

UNIT

SUPERVISOR

SICK DESK SUPERVISOR 3.

2

Notify Operations Unit and provide details of incident.

Notify Sick Desk supervisor, provide detailed information and request
response of Trauma Counseling Team.

Ascertain

Scene:

- a. Location the Trauma Team should respond to
- b. Name of supervisor who will be contact person at the scene.
3. Arrange for transportation of Trauma Team. 4.

## RANKING SUPERVISOR 5

Ensure members in need of trauma counseling are available for interview,

where possible, by responding Trauma Team upon their arrival.

AT SCENE

- Provide a suitable place for the trauma interview, where possible. 6.

from

Operations

Unit and/or

the ranking

supervisor at

the

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| PROCEDURE NUMBER:   | DATE EFFECTIVE:   | LASTREVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|---------------------|-------------------|-----------------|---------|
| 330-07              | 03/24/25          | RO. 14          | 2 of 3  |

## SUPERVISOR TRAUMA COUNSELING 7.

TEAM

NOTE

## TRAUMA COUNSELING TEAM

NOTE

## MEMBER OF THE SERVICE

Trauma Team members will wear authorized nylon windbreaker jackets with
the NYPD logo onthe front and the words N.Y.C. POLICE" printed on the
back.

- Respond, if required, to stationhouse of precinct of occurrence or other 8. location, to make contact and converse with member(s) of the service involved in the incident.
- Visit theplace ofoccurrence, ifnecessary. 9.
- Notify the member concerned that he/she will be contacted for a followup meeting forty-eight hours after the event or initial contact, as appropriate. 10.
- a. Any additional counseling/interview sessions after the forty-eight hour meeting will be scheduled within one to six weeks after the incident.

ALL CONVERSATION WITH THE TRAUMA COUNSELING TEAM BY MEMBERS OF
THESERVICE (UNIFORMED AND CIVILIAN) WILL BE STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.

- Cooperate with members of the Trauma Counseling Team and keep appointments for follow-up meetings as scheduled. 11.
- Report to Behavioral Care and Support Section or other location as 12. required, forty-eight hours after the incident, or initial contact with Trauma Counseling Team.
- a. Report for additional follow-up counseling/interview meetings scheduled with the Trauma Counseling Team.

## COMMANDING 13. OFFICER/ DUTY

- Cooperate with members of the Trauma Counseling Team and permit them access to the individual member(s) of the service involved in the shooting, disaster or other violent event.

CAPTAIN

- Verify that a member(s) of the service involved in the shooting, disaster or violent incident has been referred and contacted in person by a member of the Trauma Counseling Team. 14.
- Have UNUSUAL OCCURRENCE REPORT (PD370-152) prepared and list members of the service involved in the incident who were contacted by the Trauma Counseling Team. 15.
- Forward copies of the report, THREAT, RESISTANCE OR INJURY (T.R.I) INCIDENT REPORT, ifprepared,andotherreportspreparedto the Commanding Officer, Medical Division, 59-17 Junction Boulevard, 16h Floor, Corona, New York 11368. 16.

Respond to location and report to designated contact person at the
scene.

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

|                   |                 | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|-------------------|-----------------|------------------|---------|
| PROCEDURE NUMBER: | DATE EFFECTIVE: |                  |         |
| 330-07            | 03/24/25        | RO. 14           | 3 of 3  |

## ADDITIONAL DATA

The Trauma Counseling Team is staffed by the Chief Surgeon, Director,
Behavioral Care and SupportSection and licensed certified professionals
of the Medical Division. Trauma Team members will not interfere with on-
going investigations. team members will not be assigned any duties
outside their functions as Trauma Counselors when responding to the
occurrence site. In addition,

Thisproceduredoesnotprevent in any way the voluntary useof or referral
to any ofthe EmployeeAssistancePrograms or units in the Department for
any reason at any time. The services of the Trauma Counseling Team are
also available to members who are involved in personal or family
tragedies, e.g.. violent criminal incidents involving themselvesor their
families, death in family, etc.