<!-- image -->

## DEFINITION

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

Section:

Uniforms and Equipment

Procedure No:

305-07

## FIREARMS GENERAL REGULATIONS

LAST REVISION:

L.O. 110

DATE EFFECTIVE:

11/18/21

1

of 3

AUTHORIZED FIREARM - Servicepistolsand off dutypistols/revolversthat
conform to the specifications and standards set forth by the Firearms
and Tactics Section, Police Academy. The Firearms and Tactics Section is
the custodian of theparameters of all authorized on duty and off duty
firearms.

1 UNIFORMED

MEMBER OF

THE SERVICE

2

- Safeguard firearms at all times.
- Be armed at all times when in New York City with service pistol or off duty pistol/revolver, unless otherwise directed
- a. Be unarmed at own discretion, while off duty, when:
- (1) Possession of firearm, under the circumstances, would unnecessarily create a risk of loss or theft of the firearm (e.g., participation in sporting activities, attendance at beach and pool, etc.) or
- (2) On vacation, or
- (3) Engaged in authorized off duty employment, or
- (4) Engaged in any activity of a nature whereby it would be advisable NOT to carry a firearm, or
- (5) There is a likelihood that member will be consuming alcohol.
- Carry only authorized firearms when on duty. 3
- An off duty pistol/revolver may be carried in addition to the service pistol, while on duty, provided only the service pistol is visible. a.
- b. Permission of commanding officer is required prior to carrying special weapons while performing duty (including members performing undercover duty, see A.G. 305-11, "Authorization for Special Weapons ").
- Ensure service/off duty firearms are fully loaded with Department issued ammunition, when carried. 4
- Carry firearms, on the person, in holster (regardless of style, e,g, ankle, shoulder, belt , etc.) specifically designed for the weapon. 5
- Holster must affix tightly to the belt (or body, if holster is a shoulder/ankle holster) and incorporate a reliable retention device other than friction alone. a.
- Holster must cover the trigger guard, muzzle and front sight of the firearm. b.
- Holster carried inside of the waistband must have a reinforced C mouth to assist in one handed re-holstering.
- Holsters described as "one size fits all," clip-on" and "belly band are prohibited. d.
- Do not carry firearms in briefcases, handbags, fanny packs, hip packs, tote bags, knapsacks, paper bags or similar devices. e.

## NEW · YORK · CITY · POLICE · DEPARTMENT

PAGE:

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| PROCEDURE NUMBER:   | DATE EFFECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|---------------------|-------------------|------------------|---------|
| 305-07              | 11/18/21          | L.O. 110         | 2 of 3  |

## UNIFORMED MEMBER OF THE SERVICE (continued) 6.

Be unarmed when entering Family Court or Supreme Court Matrimonial Parts
if involved other than as arresting officer or on official business in a
Family Court case or a Supreme Court matrimonial case.

- a. Safeguard firearms at a location other than Family Court or Supreme Court or, if within New York City, the member concerned may elect to deliver firearm to desk officer of precinct in which Family Court or Supreme Court is located.
2. Uniformed member of the service present at Family Court or b Supreme Court as an arresting officer, or on official business, will report to the court officer supervisor and sign the Law Enforcement Officer log.
3. Do not store or leave firearms in an unattended motor vehicle, except as authorized (i.e., P.G. 221-10, "Use and Issuance of Shotguns/Long Guns/Automatic Weapons, " etc.). 7.
4. Transport firearms other than authorized service and off duty firearms, only while en-route to, or from, practice range or similar activity. 8.
- a. When transporting such firearms, member must be armed with an authorized service or off duty firearm and the other firearms shall be unloaded.
6. Ensure any repairs/modifications to authorized firearms are performed solely by Firearms and Tactics Section armorers. 9.
- a. Record permitted modifications on FORCE RECORD (PD406-143).
- a. Pass a qualification course of fire conducted by Firearms and Tactics Section before carrying a modified firearm.
9. Ensure green "Tritium" night sights are installed on service pistols and inspected by the Firearms and Tactics Section. 10.
- a. Use of night sights by uniformed members authorized to carry service pistols prior to September 12, 1994, is optional.
11. Use of night sights on off duty pistols is optional. b.
12. Record all revolvers and pistols owned on FORCE RECORD. 11.
13. Utilize the firearms safety station, when available, when loading/ unloading firearms. 12.

Modifications to an authorized firearm include all afiermarket/non-
Department parts (e.g., extended magazine releases, extended slide stop
levers, magazines, sights, flared magazine wells, etc,). Polishing that
alters the firearm (not to be confused with routine wiping with a
silicone cloth or similar item), machining any part of the firearm,
attaching anything to the firearm (e.g., slip on grips, grip plugs. any
attachments to the accessory rail, rubber bands, belt clips, etc.) and
engraving, adding decals, painting, or etching any part ofthefirearm
isprohibited.

Uniformedmembers oftheservice who were trained and authorized by the
Firearms and Tactics Section with an authorized offduty revolver, may
continue to usethem. No other revolver will be authorized.
Uniformedmembersof the servicewho transition to authorizedoff duty 9m,
semiautomatic pistols will not be permitted to switch back to an
authorized off duty revolver. Uniformed members whopossess singleldouble
action of duty revolvers may continue to use them as authorized off duty
revolvers, provided such revolvers were owned by, and authorized

## ADDITIONAL DATA

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| PROCEDURE NUMBER:   | DATE EFFECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|---------------------|-------------------|------------------|---------|
| 305-07              | 11/18/2           | I.0. 110         | 3 of 3  |

## ADDITIONAL DATA (continued)

for, the member concerned prior to July 1, 1987 or, for former members
of the Transit Police Department, prior to April 2, 1995.

All uniformed members of the service, unless they are on official
business or personally participating in an event requiring the use of a
firearm, such as hunting or competitive shooting, are prohibited from
carying on their person, or transporting in their luggage, or by
anothermeans ofconveyance, their serice, off duty or other firearm into
a foreign country. Members of the service traveling to a foreign country
in order to personlly participate in a sporting event requiring the use
ofa firearm, are required to comply with all applicable rules and
regulations regarding firearms in the country they are entering.

Failure to comply will result in disciplinary action andpossibby subject
the uniformed member to criminal penalties and/or weapon confiscation.
Uniformed members of the service will adhere to P.G. 212-83, "Leaving
City on Official Business" and A.G 33216, "Oficial Trips by Department
Representatives, " when leaving New York City on official business.

Ouestions regarding the eligibility of firearms/night sights should be
directed to the Commanding Oficer, Firearms and Tacties Section. In
addition, standards regarding firearms are also subject to change by the
Firearms and Tactics Section.