<!-- image -->

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

Scction:

Department Property

Procedure No:

325-35

## DEPARTMENT COMPUTER USE POLICY AND MONITORING NOTICE

LAST REVISION:

DATE EFFECTIVE:

02/04/15

PAGE:

1

of 1

To inform members of the service of the Department computer use policy
when accessing computer systems, and to notify all members that the
Department reserves and will exercise the right to review, intercept,
access and disclose all material in the Department's computer systems at
any time, with or without notice to the member of the service concerned.

When the duties of members of the service require the use of the
Department's computer systems:

Inform member concerned of the Department Computer Use Policy and

Monitoring

Notice (see Additional Data).

Review and comply with contents of the Department Computer Use Policy
and Monitoring Notice.

An on-screen notice has been established by the Deputy Commissioner,
Information Technology which will generate the following display to
computer users:

## PURPOSE

PROCEDURE

COMMANDING 1. OFFICER

MEMBER OF THE SERVICE CONCERNED 2.

ADDITIONAL DATA

POLICE DEPARTMENT CITY OF NEW YORK

## DEPARTMENT COMPUTER USEPOLICY AND MONITORING NOTICE

All membersof the service are advised that all Police Department
computersystemsand equipment are intended for the purposes of conducting
official Department business only. Use of Department computersystems for
personal or non-Department business matters is strictly prohibited and
individuals whoare found in violation of this policy are notified that
they will be subject to disciplinary action. In addition, use of
Department computer systems to disseminate derogatory or discriminatory
material is strictly prohibited.

All members of the service are hereby notified that the Department
reserves and will exercise the right to review, intercept, access and
disclose all material on the Department's computer systenms at any time,
with or. without notice to the member concerned, and such access may
occur during or after the user 's assigned tours.

These policies are established to ensure that users of Department
computer systems and equipment maintain Department standards
ofprofessionalism.

FINEST Communication System (A.G. 322-04) Department ComputerSystems
(P.G. 219-14)

RELATED PROCEDURES