<!-- image -->

PURPOSE

PROCEDURE

UNIFORMED MEMBER OF THE SERVICE

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

Section:

Uniforms and Equipment

Procedure No:

## LOST OR DAMAGED UNIFORM

LAST REVISION:

L.0. 63

DATE EFFECTIVE:

06/24/21

305-05

l of 3

To reimburse uniformed members of the service for uniforms or equipment
damaged or lost in the performance of police duty as well as personal
clothing or prescription eyeglasses/contact lenses damaged or lost
during extraordinary police action (e.g., pursuit or physical
altercation with a suspect, rescues, etc.).

When an article of uniform or equipment is damaged or lost in the
performance of police duty or personal clothing or prescription
eyeglasses/contactlenses are damagedor lost during extraordinary police
action:

- 1 Prepare report on Typed Letterhead, Commissioner, Management and Budget, within thirty days from the date of incident and state: addressed to the Deputy
- a. How and when loss or damage occurred
- b Date ofpurchaseand cost of article
- (1) Attachcopyofreceipt ifavailable.
- Attachstatement ofwitnesses, if any.
- Ascertain if article can be repaired.
- Obtain copy of estimatedcost for repair, OR a.
- Copy of statement determining that item is damaged beyond repair.
- Present damaged article, unrepaired, to the commanding officer with report and appropriate documentation from steps I through 3 above. 4

NOTE

Report must be signed and submitted within thirty days by member
requesting reimbursement, unless member is incapacitated, in which case,
supervisory officer will state so in report, sign and submit within
thirty days.

## COMMANDING 5. OFFIÇER

Investigate and endorse report, including:

- a Facts are as stated in application.
- b Whetherdamage or loss was incurred in the performance of police duty, or for personal clothing, occurred during an extraordinary police action.
- Statement that damaged commanding officer. article has been inspected by C
- Statement that article is repairable or beyond repair. d.
- Statement that member was authorized to be attired in civilian clothing at the time of incident, if the request involves personal clothing. e.
- Recommendation to approve or disapprove request. f.
- Forward report to Deputy Commissioner, Management and Budget: 6
- Direct if cost of repair orreplacementis lessthan Sl00. d.
- Through channels if cost of repair or replacement is $100 or b. more.

PAGE:

2

3

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| PROCEDURE NUMBER:   | DATE EFFECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|---------------------|-------------------|------------------|---------|
| 305-05              | 06/24/2 1         | L.0: 63          | 2 of3   |

C.O., NEXT

HIGHER

COMMAND

(fapplicable)

DEPUTY

COMMISSIONER,

MANAGEMENT

AND BUDGET

DEPUTY

COMMISSIONER,

MANAGEMENT

AND BUDGET

AUDITS AND

ACCOUNTS

UNIT

DEPUTY

COMMISSIONER,

MANAGEMENT

AND BUDGET

- Review report. 7
- Indicate recommendation to approve/disapprove request. 8

9

If approved, forward report through channels to Deputy Commissioner,

Management and Budget.

- Review report and recommendations. 10.

## FORITEMS WHICHCANNOTBEPURCHASEDAT THEEQUIPMENT SECTION:

11. Forward report to Director, Audits and Accounts Unit.
12. Review the report for necessary documentation and required approvals.
13. Determine the reimbursement amount to be paid to the member based upon current cost, less depreciation for age or wear.
4. Forward a check to the member of the service who initiated the claim. a.

## FORITEMSSOLDIN THEEQUPMENTSECTION:

14.

Prepare replaced.

15. Forward report as follows:
2. Origi ņ al to member of the service concemed d
3. Copy to Equipment Section b
4. Copy to Audits and Accounts Unit C.
5. Copy to Deputy Commissioner, Management and Budget for file. d.
6. UNIFORMED MEMBER OF THE SERVICE Upon receipt of report authorizing replacement of lost or damaged uniform or equipment, telephone the Equipment Section to determine whether item(s) is in stock. 16.
7. Present report to Equipment Section personnel and obtain replacement item(s). 17.
8. Issue the authorized item(s) to member concerned. 18.
9. Submit a detailed report to the Director, Audits and Accounts Unit of replacement item(s) disbursed for the previous month, by the fifth day of the succeeding month. 19.

report on

Typed

Letterhead stating

EQUIPMENT

SECTION

items authorized

to be

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| PROCEDURE NUMBER:   | DATEEFFECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|---------------------|------------------|------------------|---------|
| 305-05              | 06/24/21         | L.0. 63          | 3 of 3  |

## ADDITIONAL DATA

All settlements are non-transferable and MUST be executed within one
hundred and eighty daysof approval by the Deputy Commissioner,
Management and Budget.

The Department does not reimburse members of the service for loss of or
damage to, personal articles, e.g. jewelry, rings, bracelets, etc., with
the exception ofwatches. While uniformed members of the service
performing patrol duty must be equipped with a serviceable watch, such
members should be aware that a maximum of $75.00 has been establishedas
a reasonableamount forreimbursement, if the watch is lost ordamaged.

Uniformed members of the service may require prescription
eyeglasses/contact lenses in order to optimally perform their duties.
eyeglasses/contactlenses are lost or damaged in the performance of
extraordinary police duties, members should be aware that a maximum of
S100.00 has been established as a reasonableamount forreimbursement. In
those instances where prescription

Uniformed members authorized to perform duty in civilian clothes who
sustain damage to their personal clothing in the furtherance of
extraordinary police action should be aware that the following limits
(in consideration of depreciation) have been established as
reasonableforreimbursement.

| Jacket/Coat                              | $100.00                                   |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| Suit Jacket                              | S100.00                                   |
| Dress                                    | S100.00                                   |
| Dress pants                              | S75.00                                    |
| Footwear                                 | $75.00                                    |
| Skirt                                    | $50.00                                    |
| Other pants (jeans, shorts, etc.)        | $45.00                                    |
| Dress shirt/blouse                       | $40.00                                    |
| Other shirts (sweat shirt, t-shirt, etc) | $20.00                                    |
| Other                                    | As determined by Audits and Accounts Unit |