<!-- image -->

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

Section:

Disciplinary Mutters

Procedure No:

318-11

## INTERROGATION OF MEMBERS OF THE SERVICE

DATE EFFECTIVE:

O1/01/25

LAST REVISION:

R.O. 2

1 of 3

PURPOSE

To protect the rights of the member of the service (uniformed or
civílian) ín an official Department investigation.

Prior to questioning a member of the service (uniformed or civilian) who
is the subject or a witness in an official investigation:

Prior to questioning, provide member a completed NOTIFICATION OF
ALLEGATION(S) AND EMPLOYEE'S RIGHTS (PD339-121) for review
andendorsement.

- a.. Allow member reasonable amount of time for review prior to endorsement.

- Permit member to obtain counsel if: 2

- a A serious violation is alleged, QR

PROCEDURE

INTERROGATING 1. OFFICER

- b. Sufficient justification is presented although the alleged violation is minor.

NOTE

All members of the service who are the subject of an official
investigation or are a witness in an official investigation, shall be
given a reasonable period of time to obtain and confer with counsel
prior to questioning.The member will be permitted to view their own
Body-Worn Camera recording related to the incident(s) underinvestigation
prior to questioning at a time and place deemed appropriate by the
supervisor in charge of the investigation. Interrogations of members in
routine, non-critical matters should be scheduled during business hours
on a day when the member is scheduled to work.

Interrogations in emerging investigation, where there is a need to
gather timely information, should usually be done after all preliminary
steps and conferrals have been completed and the member to be questioned
has been afforded a reasonable time to obtain and confer with counsel.
In determining what is a reasonable period of time, consideration should
be given to the nature of the investigation, the need for the Department
to have the information possessed by the member in a timely manner, and
the stage the investigation is at when the need to question the member
has been determined. The emergent nature and exigent circumstances of
each investigation will determine the length of time afforded the member
before questioning is conducted. However, in all cases the determination
as to what is a reasonable time will be made by the captain (or above)
in charge of the investigation.

3. Inform member concerned of:
- a. Rank, name and command of person in charge of investigation
- b. Rank, name and command of interrogating officer
4. Identity of all personspresent C.
5. Nature ofaccusation e.
6. Whether he is subject or witness in the investigation, if known d.
7. Identities of witnesses or complainants (address need not be revealed) except those of confidential source or field associate unless they are witnesses to the incident f.
8. Information concerning all allegations. g.

PAGE:

## ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE

| PROCEDURE NUMBER:   | DATE EFFECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|---------------------|-------------------|------------------|---------|
| 318-11              | 01/01/25          | R.O. 2           | 2 of 3  |

## INTERROGATING OFFICER (continued)

NOTE

- The Department's policy regarding making false, misleading, and inaccurate statements, as per A.G. 304-10, "False or Misleading h Statements.
- Permit representative of department line organization to be present at all times during interrogation. 4
- Conduct interrogation at reasonable hour, preferably when member is on duty during daytime hours. 5
- Ensure that interrogation is recorded either mechanically or by a department stenographer. 6.
- The Department Advocate will determine if a transcript is required in non-criminal or minor violation cases. a
- DO NOTuse: 7.
- "Off the record"questions a.
- Offensive language or threats (transfer, dismissal or other disciplinary punishment) b
- Promises of reward for answeringquestions. C.
- Regulate duration of question periods with breaks for meal, personal necessity, telephone call, ete. 8
- Record all recesses. 9.

Interrogations may be conducted before or after CHARGES AND
SPECIFICATIONS (PD468-121) have been served. An interrogation conducted
after service of charges must be completed at least ten days prior to
the date of Department trial except as directed by the Deputy
Commissioner Trials.

10. Conduct interrogation within areasonable time after disposition of criminal matter, when member was arrested, indicted or under criminal investigation.

## DEPARTMENT 11. ADVOCATE

- Furnish member with copy of tape of interrogation no later than twenty days after service of charges.
- If interrogation was conducted after service ofcharges,tape must be a furnished to member ng later than five days after interrogation
- Furnish transcript, if one was prepared, by 1000 hours on trial b. date, in all cases.

When the Department trial date is scheduled immediately after CHARGES
AND SPECIFICATIONS are served, the Deputy Commissioner -Trials will
grant the Department reasonable time to conduct an interrogation. In any
event, a copy of the tape and a copy of the transcript must be furnished
as indicated above, if appropriate.

NOTE

## COMMANDING 12. OFFICER OF MEMBER

## MEMBER OF THE SERVICE

- Assign member to 2nd Platoon, if possible.
13. Answer questions specifically directed and narrowly related to official duties. (Refusal shall result in suspension from duty).
14. Submit OVERTIME REPORT (PD138-064) if lost time accrues as result of investigation.

NEW · YORK · CITY· POLICE · DEPARTMENT

## GUIIDE ADMINISTRATIVE

| &#124;PROCEDURENUMBER:   | DATE EFFECTIVE:   | LAST REVISION:   | PAGE:   |
|--------------------------|-------------------|------------------|---------|
| 318-11                   | 01/01/25          | R.O.2            | 3 of 3  |

## SUPERVISOR IN CHARGE OF 15.

## INVESTIGATION 16.

## DESK OFFICER 17.

Notify the desk officer immediately when member of the service is
directed to leave his post or assignment to report for an official
investigation.

- Ensure that notifications concerning official investigations are properly recorded in appropriate Department records when made to or recorded from:
- Complainants a.
- b Witnesses
- C. Lawyers
- d Respondents
- Other interested parties. e.

Record in appropriate department records and notify the investigating
command immediately of notifications ormessagesreceived from:

- Lawyers a.
- Witnesses b
- Complainants C.
- Other interested parties involved in the subject investigation. d

## ADDITIONAL DATA

fa member of the service (uniformed or civilian) is under arrest or is
the subject of a criminal investigation or there is a likelihood that
criminal charges may result from the investigation, the following
warnings shall be given to the member concerned prior to
commencementofthe interrogation:

"I wish to advise you that you are beingquestionedas part ofan official
investigation by the Police Department. You will be asked questions
specifically directed and narrowly related to the performance of your
duties. privileges guaranteed by the laws of theState of New York, the
Constitution of this state and the Constitution of the United States,
including the right not to be compelled to incriminate yourself and the
right to have legal counsel present at each and every stage You are
entitled to all the rights and ofthis investigation.

I further wish toadviseyou that if yourefuseto testify or toanswer
questionsrelating to the performance of your official duties, you will
be subject to departmental charges, which could result in your dismissal
from the Police Department. If you do answer, neither your statements
nor any information or evidence which is gained by reason of such
statements can be used against you in any subsequent criminal
proceedings. However, these statements may be used against you in
relation to subsequent departmentalcharges."

The questions and answers resulting from the interrogation conducted
pursuant to this procedure are confidential. They are not to be revealed
nor released to any person or agency outside the depatment without prior
written approval of the Deputy Commissioner Legal Matters. If a subpoena
duces tecum is received for any such questions and answers, the Legal
Bureau should be contacted immediately

Members of the service (uniformed and civilian) working in an official
capacity, whose actions result in the death or serious physical injury
of a member of the public, may only return to a fully-duty status
pending a Department administrative review.